king nara of arendelle tells a story to
his young daughters
elsa and anna that their grandfather
king roonard
had established a treaty with a
neighboring tribe of north uldra
by building a dam in their homeland the
enchanted forest
however a fight occurs resulting in
runard's death and enraging the
elemental spirits of earth
fire water and air of the forest the
spirits disappear
and a wall of mist traps everyone in the
enchanted forest
young anar barely escapes due to the
help of an unknown savior
three years after her coronation elsa
celebrates autumn in the kingdom with
anna
one night when elsa hears a mysterious
voice calling out to her
she follows it and unintentionally
awakens the elemental spirits
which forces everyone in the kingdom to
evacuate
grand pabby and the rock troll colony
arrive and pabby informs them
that they must set things right by
discovering the truth about the past
elsa anna olive kristoff and spend
embarked to the enchanted forest
following the mysterious voice after the
mist parts at elsa's touch
the air spirit in the form of a tornado
appears and sweeps everyone in its
vortex
elsa stops it forming a set of ice
sculptures
the sisters discover the sculptures or
images from their father's past
they encounter the north uldra and a
troop of arendellian soldiers who are
still in conflict with one another
when the fire spirit appears elsa
discovers the spirit to be an agitated
magical salamander
and calms it down
elsa and anna arrange a truce between
the soldiers and the north uldra
after discovering that their mother
queen eduna was a north aldrin who had
saved an
r an arendellian they later learned the
existence of a fifth spirit who will
unite the people with the magic of
nature
elsa anna and olive continue to head
north
leaving kristoff and spend behind they
find their parents wrecked ship and a
map
with a route to a tohilan a mythical
river told by their mother
to contain all explanations of the past
elsa sends anna and aleph away to safety
and continues alone
she encounters and tames the knock the
water spirit who guards the sea to a
toehold
reaching a toholin a glacier elsa
discovers that the voice calling to her
was the memory of young eduna's call
that her powers were a gift from nature
because of eduna's selfless act of
saving anar
and that elsa herself is the fifth
spirit
elsa then learns that the dam was built
as a ruse
to reduce the north uldra's resources
because of king runard's dislike of the
tribe's connection with magic and his
intention
to incorporate the region into the
kingdom she also learns he was the one
who initiated the conflict
by killing the unarmed leader of the
north uldra elsa sends this information
to anna
before becoming frozen due to venturing
into the most dangerous part of a
totally
anna receives elsa's message and
concludes that the dam
must be destroyed for peace to be
restored
anna finds and awakens the gigantic
earth spirits and lures them towards the
dam
the giants hurl boulders aimed at anna
which destroy the dam
sending a flood down the fjord towards
the kingdom
elsa thaws out and returns to arendelle
diverting the flood and saving the
kingdom
as the mist disappears elsa reunites
with anna and revives olaf
and anna accepts kristoff's marriage
proposal
elsa explains that she and anna are the
bridge between the people and the
magical spirits
anna becomes the new queen of arendelle
while elsa becomes the protector of the
enchanted forest who regularly visits
arendelle
as peace has been restored